refactor volumes page into core, external (#25042)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/subpath-env.md

---

> title: Using subPath with expanded environment variables 

Reviewer: nit: page titles should normally be in title case

content_type: task

> ---

Reviewer 2: Is this task page related to the updates to the Volumes page?

Author: I think it's related to the concept of "refactoring" the volumes page. In response to feedback, I broke those out into separate pages.

> ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
min-kubernetes-server-version: v1.17
---
```
(is that right?)

Author: I can find it in 1.15, so I'll use that.

{{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.17" state="stable" >}}

<!-- overview -->
Use the `subPathExpr` field to construct `subPath` directory names from
downward API environment variables. The `subPath` and `subPathExpr` properties are mutually exclusive.

## {{% heading "prerequisites" %}}

{{< include "task-tutorial-prereqs.md" >}} {{< version-check >}}

<!-- steps -->

> 

Reviewer: This jumps into a manifest with little context. What task is the reader learning to perform?

Author: I have revised this section with a new, friendlier, intro.

> ## Example Spec

Reviewer: nit: This example is actually a manifest

---
title: Using SubPath with Expanded Environment Variables 
content_type: task
min-kubernetes-server-version: v1.15
---
{{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.17" state="stable" >}}

<!-- overview -->

Use the `subPathExpr` field to construct `subPath` directory names from
downward API environment variables. In other words, the `subPath` mounted by a pod may determined using variables, such as pod name. For example, you can create a folder for logs from each pod.

The `subPath` and `subPathExpr` properties are mutually exclusive.

## {{% heading "prerequisites" %}}

{{< include "task-tutorial-prereqs.md" >}} {{< version-check >}}

<!-- steps -->

## Example manifest

In this example, a pod uses `subPathExpr` to create a directory `pod1` within

> the `hostPath` volume `/var/log/pods`. All containers see this as simply `/logs`. Thus, logs may be collected from multiple pods in directories such as `/var/log/pods/pod1/` and `.../pods/pod2/`.

Reviewer: Should we warn people that read-write `hostPath` mounts are usually not suited for production (and that [`local`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#local) might be a better option? The original page includes that warning, albeit quite a long way away from this text.

(Perhaps we could use a `local` volume in the example - but that sounds like a separate fix).

Author: I think i'll open an issue to make better examples using local.

Author: done! #27439

> First, the spec defines an environment variable `POD_NAME` using the `downwardAPI`.

Reviewer: I'd write:
```suggestion
First, the spec defines an environment variable `POD_NAME` using the _downward API_.
```

the `hostPath` volume `/var/log/pods`. All containers see this as simply `/logs`. Thus, logs may be collected from multiple pods in directories such as `/var/log/pods/pod1/` and `.../pods/pod2/`.

First, the spec defines an environment variable `POD_NAME` using the _downward API_.

Second, a subpath on the volume mount is defined using a `subPathExpr`. This allows the subpath to change based on environment variables. The subpath `pod1` is determined using an environment variable. 

Overall, the host directory `/var/log/pods/pod1` is mounted at `/logs` in the container.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: pod1
spec:
  containers:
  - name: container1
    env:
    - name: POD_NAME
      valueFrom:
        fieldRef:
          apiVersion: v1
          fieldPath: metadata.name
    image: busybox
    command: [ "sh", "-c", "while [ true ]; do echo 'Hello'; sleep 10; done | tee -a /logs/hello.txt" ]
    volumeMounts:
    - name: workdir1
      mountPath: /logs
      subPathExpr: $(POD_NAME)
  restartPolicy: Never
  volumes:
  - name: workdir1
    hostPath:
      path: /var/log/pods
```

## {{% heading "whatsnext" %}}

> * Learn more about [PersistentVolumes](/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/).

Reviewer 3: I would probably point to the volumes page as well

Author: done!

<<<<<<< HEAD

> <<<<<<< HEAD

Reviewer 2: Hi @geoffcline .
Would you check these additions and clean up any rebasing text?

Author: thanks!
